our first gift tonight is one of the
most talented men in the world he's a
multi-award-winning recording artist
fashion designer and shoe salesman
his new album is called yay please
welcome kanye west
[Music]
good all right first of all
i thanks for being here and thank you
for the shoes nobody ever brings me
shoes you brought me shoes that's very
nice of you very kind
and i'll tell you a story and this is
honestly true the last time a few years
ago you sent me a pair of yeezys
i have never in my life had more people
come up and talk to me
than when i was walking around in them
to the point where i was like this is
crazy i got to get these off people are
chasing me
i'm worried people are going to beat me
up and take these
usually people wait like on they see
them sleeping on the street waiting for
these shoes
is that for you more rewarding than
hearing people say they like your music
both it's both hard yeah yeah sometimes
it's like the thing you are
accustomed to hearing and you start
hearing something else and it's more
exciting to hear something else but not
for you
yeah when you when you go on new
creative journeys it is exciting for
people to appreciate that
especially if people you know
didn't think that it was possible like
when i started off in
chicago as an artist as a i'm a
visual artist i go into art school right
and i decided to start doing music and
people said it wouldn't work out and
then
i started producing and selling beats
and i started selling beats to
jay-z rockefeller and that started going
well and i said i wanted to rap
and people said that wasn't going to
work they had this uh term producer
rapper
it basically meant you wouldn't rap as
good as the real rappers
and uh you know that started working out
then i said i wanted to
design clothes and then that started
working out
uh so what's the next what's what is
next for you
um well space force
you should i would totally be involved
you should design the uniforms for the
space force is that something that you
would do
if president trump asked you to do that
i'm into designing
yeah why not
your wife was here last week
[Laughter]
[Applause]
put a leash on him will you uh your wife
was here last week and she was
she's very nice and she did something
that i would imagine you're very proud
of
she went to washington she spoke to the
president and she actually convinced him
to grant clemency to a woman
who got life in prison like real life in
prison for a first-time drug offense
was that something that you discussed
with her before she did it
well she's super passionate about it and
it was amazing for her to see that dream
come true
were you ever concerned about her being
alone in the oval office with president
trump
well he is a player
[Applause]
people got really mad when you were well
people some people were very happy when
you
said you liked president trump do you
like do you think he is a good president
you you're gonna ask me can i answer the
first question you're gonna ask ask
answer whatever you want
well you know it's it's funny you know
in this world that we live in
there's two main motivating forces and i
tweet about it all the time it's love or
fear
and you you can't explain love
you know my cousin is locked up for
murder
and i i love him and so he did a bad
thing but i still love him
and just as a musician
uh african-american
guy out in hollywood all these different
things you know
everyone around me tried to pick
my candidate for me and then told me
every time i said i like trump that
i couldn't say it out loud or my career
would be over
i get kicked out the black community
because blacks are we're supposed to
have a monolithic thought we can only
like we can only be democrats and all so
um it
even when i said it right before i went
to the hospital
and i expressed myself and
when i came out i had lost my confidence
so i didn't have the
the confidence to take on the world and
the possible backlash and it took me
a year and a half to have the confidence
to stand up and put on the hat no matter
what the consequences
were and what it represented to me is
not about policies and because i'm not a
politician like that but it represents
it represented overcoming fear and doing
what you felt
no matter what anyone said and saying
you can't bully me
liberals can't bully me news can't bully
me the hip-hop community they can't
bully me
because at that point if i'm afraid to
be me i'm no longer yay that's what
makes yay
and i actually quite i quite enjoy when
people uh
actually are mad at me about certain
things you just enjoy it yeah
yeah actually quite enjoyed it because
your wife was mad at you
right i mean according to your song your
wife was
upset about that right or wrong or even
if i changed my mind about it or thought
about it more which i'm
not saying i did
just place a thought out there that
everyone's not thinking sometimes
galileo they want to chop his head off
for saying that
the earth uh that what what do you say
the the sun revolved around
the earth right vice versa you know so
when you have
modern but the centuristic but the s
but i'm not concerned about the
specifics sir right right
do you ever regret anything you say or
is it just like you just look at it like
hey
i put it out there it's out there
there's no point regretting it
i think people focus too much on the
past
and focus too much on regret even like
when you deal with schools like you take
like the slave idea
my my point is
i've heard of history class
i i've never heard of a class that
breaks down how you
you know balance a checkbook or how you
control your finances which uh
my father never taught me that and i've
never heard of a future class
so they keep us so focused on history
that we start to believe that it
actually repeats itself and we become
overly traditional
and we can advance as
a race of beings we get too caught up in
the past and what everyone's saying and
what everyone's tweeting
and sometimes you just have to be
fearless enough to break
the simulation and when i mean
simulation that's what i mean by
the simulation sorry i know you guys
wanted to clap but everything i'm going
to say is going to be amazing
[Applause]
here's the idea why you're in a
simulation
let's start with acting first of all
when a two-year-old
uh screams at a restaurant the entire
restaurant screams
teach that kid how to act we're all
unpaid
actors in some giant script that we
didn't write
simulation a two-year-old jumps on a
coffee table and someone says
that's a coffee table don't jump on that
so it went from being something that
makes him feel like
superman he's got his cape on to
something where he has to think about
this person's like a family member he
doesn't like anyway
he's two years old he doesn't think
about a cough coffee or a table
and he's starting to like calculate all
these things and by the time
you're 40 years old you've got a wall
full of coffee tables
calculating you into traffic calculating
you
into your career choice calculating you
into this
house town house that's not quite as big
as the townhouse next and it just never
works
you know that's the simulation that i'm
talking that's what i mean when i say
simulation
i think i understand what you're saying
but i might not
but also you know maybe people don't
want the kid to get hurt jumping on the
coffee table you know
and we are too protective we always
don't want someone to get hurt can you
imagine
me talking to my publicist before i said
i'm going on tv again
like i'm like i'm going on
[Applause]
you should be wearing a helmet
[Laughter]
i'm going on tv because it's awesome
like
i like i i love jimmy uh
we can have a a dialogue about
the president and not a diatribe you
know it's like
we can i got that from uh uh
sarah jessica parker i was talking is
that right yeah
shout out uh shout out to that bar
but you know it's one of the things i
think it got me missed on tmz is the
main thing that i was stressing is the
idea of trying love
you know we're always you know
pushing out so much hate and love can
cure so much just to think
am i moving in love this is out of love
not out of pride
pride is a word that people often say in
a positive connotation but it's actually
one of the seven deadly sins
and it takes too much ownership but you
can replace
pride with love and
when i see people just even like go at
the president it's like
why not try love
for one person to stand up against
all odds and just hug somebody
the way that alice johnson hugged her
family
when she got out of jail that one by one
by one
we can defuse this nuclear bomb of hate
that we're in
as a society by thinking of
everyone as our family and how would we
treat our kids how are we treated i
think that's a beautiful thought but
just
in literal terms there are families
being torn
apart at the border of this country
there are
literally families being torn apart as a
result
of what this president is doing and i
think that you know we cannot forget
that whether we
like his personality or or not
the his actions are really what what
matter i mean you've so famously
and so powerfully said george bush
doesn't care about
black people it makes me wonder what
makes you think that
donald trump does or any people
at all
why don't we take a break we'll come
back and uh kanye west
[Applause]
hi i'm jimmy kimmel i hope you enjoyed
that video hit subscribe and all your
dreams will come true
assuming your dreams are to watch more
youtube videos